>> Josh Long: So
I'm going to close this out.
This is all modulith is how you build
modular systems in a single jvm.
Obviously, even with that, even this
monolithic example, I still had easy
interop with external modules right
through the externalized module.
And I talked to a database and
there's other moving parts, but sometimes,
sometimes, sometimes, sometimes you've
got to build a distributed system.
There's more than one
service in your system.
Just do you have more than
one service in your system?
I mean, I was kind of being facetious,
but yeah, of course you do.
Even if you're not intentionally
building a microservice system today,
there's a lot of moving parts
in most people's systems.
And there are things that sort of
naturally fall out of that arrangement
that you need to care for, right.
Things that are just a natural part of
the complexity of building these kinds of
systems.
And so
we have a project called Spring Cloud.
Spring Cloud is a set of extensions for
building distributed systems and
microservices layered on
top of Spring Boot, okay.
And there's several different things
that you can use there to make your life
a little bit easier.
So I'm going to talk to you about
just a few of them right here.
Okay, so let's go back here.
Start Spring IO.
What we're going to do is I want to do.
I need to set up some moving parts,
some infrastructure, olkay.
First things first.
If I have more than one service,
I'm going to want to have a single
place to get my configuration.
When I say configuration,
I mean keys and values.
You've seen me talk about environment
variables or property files, whatever.
But I also mentioned in passing
things like HashiCorp Vault or
the Spring Cloud Config Server.
I love the Spring Cloud Config server.
So let's create one of these.
Okay, Config Server Web Enter Open uio.
Here we go.
So now what this is going to do is it's
going to give me a API that will babysit
or mediate access to a directory
full of configuration or
a hosted sort of repository
of configuration, right.
As long as it's git,
I'm using a git repository.
And this will run in Port 8888, which is,
you know, bad luck in the Far East.
Sorry about that.
And it's just the default port.
So okay, the last thing you need to
do is to say, enable Config Server.
So Enable Config Server,
point to a directory full of config.
That directory exists on my desktop Here,
it's a directory full of config files.
You can see it's got to get.
The code is public.
Please feel free to take it.
All right, so GitHub.
Sorry, did I start this?
I didn't start this.
So now we're going to localhost 8888 and
I'm going to go for
the configuration for
the Auth server in the default profile.
Okay, so you can see it says Auth and
then we have this concept of a profile.
A profile in Spring is a label that you
can attach to objects to determine whether
they're loaded or not.
For now, actually, for most of what you
do, just stick with the default profile.
You don't need to worry about it much,
but it can be useful in some rare cases.
So the Auth is the name of the service and
then the default profile.
When I ask for the Auth configuration,
what I get is two property sources
that contains the details of whatever's
in application properties and
whatever's in Auth YAML.
Now I'm going to set up another
service which is going to consume this
configuration.
It's going to identify itself as Auth,
for example, and say, hey,
I need configuration.
For me, I'm called Auth.
What is my configuration?
Well, since this lives
in the config server,
I can change the configuration
without having to change the.
I don't have to redeploy the service.
So let's try that.
Let's create a simple service here.
Start Spring IO and I'll call this service
again because I'm great with names.
I'll use the config client,
I'm going to use the web support,
I'm going to use
the discovery client support.
So I've got that.
I'll go ahead and
leave the discovery client in there.
I'll use the web, I'll use the config
client, open that up just like before.
In order to do service registration and
discovery, I need a service registry,
something like Hashicorp Console.
Something like Zookeeper Apache,
Zookeeper,
something like Netflix Eureka, etc.
So Netflix Eureka is, by the way, a lot of
these patterns came from Netflix, right?
This is a project that was originally
built on the integrations that we built on
top of Netflix, and
this project came out in 2015.
Netflix, remember, they have famously
deployed on AWS their entire time, right?
It's always been aws, but
there are things you need to do to tame
the cloud environment on aws, right?
Even today.
So they built a lot of infrastructure to
sort of make that more approachable to
Russell, that complexity down.
And we they open source a lot of it.
We then packaged it up as
Spring Cloud components.
These components are reusable,
they're open source, but
they also inspired abstractions because
there are several other players in a lot
of these different spaces.
So I'm going to use Eureka,
which is from Netflix.
It's a service registry.
So I'm going to go back here, start
Spring IO, I'm going to build a Eureka.
I'll use the Eureka service registry.
I'll use the web support,
I'll use the config client.
Okay, here we go.
Enter UAO Eureka.
Okay, so now application properties.
Well, first of all,
you go to the Eureka Java code.
You say, enable Eureka server.
I guess I don't need to Eureka.
Did I add the wrong one?
Wrong one.
I want the Eureka server.
Copy and paste.
Okay, Command shift.
I reload, go back to my Java code.
Enable Eureka server.
Okay, that's the hard part.
Well, maybe this is also difficult.
So I'll do port 8761 and
I'll tell it not to register with itself.
Register with Eureka, false.
Now I'm going to start up this code.
I did a lot of code there.
I don't like doing that much code for
no reason, but I did.
I've also told it to get its
config from the config server.
So now this is the first thing that
will act as a config client actually.
So I'm not sure if I put
this in the config server.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a new.
This is a service called Eureka.
I'm going to create a new config
file in my directory full of
configuration called Eureka Properties.
Okay, so paste that in.
Git Add Eureka git,
commit Eureka git
push, okay.
Okay, authorize, good.
All right, so
now I've got a Eureka instance.
So let's restart it.
It's going to start up.
It's going to draw the configuration
from that property file by default.
That means it's going to run in Port 8761.
There's Eureka.
This is a full blown service registry
that I just with that one annotation.
So this is Spring boot standing up a web
service that actually does service
registration discovery.
Remember I drew the configuration,
there's no config here, right.
All I did was I said, hey, microservice,
draw your configuration from the config
server running on the default host and
port the way you would specify that is
by overriding this part right here.
If you don't specify it,
it goes to localhost8888.
That config server is over here.
I can go back to Eureka and there's the
config files called Eureka Properties and
Application Properties.
So whatever the name of the microservice,
the name is Eureka.
It'll look for Eureka in there and
it'll return the property file called
Eureka Properties or Eureka YAML.
All microservices,
no matter what they're called,
will see whatever is in
Application Properties.
Only the microservice called Eureka will.
We'll see what's in Eureka Properties.
So far, so good.
So this is a composite, and
if you have the duplicate key,
if you have server port equals foo and
it's server port equals bar over here,
then the more specific file
overrides the least specific one.
Okay, so
I've got a Eureka service registry, and
that service registry is in turn drawing
its config from the config server.
Now I want to create a microservice
that talks to both the config server and
the Eureka service registry
to advertise if its location.
A service registry is a great way to
advertise what services are available.
Remember, DNS is not your friend.
It's always DNS, right.
DNS is flaky.
It encourages caching, which is great for
the overall large web, but
it's really bad for dynamic turbulent
volatile microservice systems and
cloud native systems,
where things come and go all the time.
So you don't want DNS.
DNS is the enemy, right.
Use a service registry.
So I've got this.
Where's my.
I've got the config server.
I've got my service.
Well, this is going to draw its
configuration from the config server.
Same thing.
I just put that in there.
Okay, and I don't even know what's
in the config server for service.
Let's go find out.
Okay, you can see if it's modulus,
I'm ready to go, if I've GraphQL,
I'm ready to go, etc.
So pretty good.
Pretty standard stuff.
Nothing special though.
Is there any.
No prescription on the port?
Nope.
Okay, good.
So this is a service in the service.
I'm going to inject the current port.
I'm going to get the current port.
So I'll say void on startup and
I'm going to listen for
the web server initialized event, okay.
Why am I going to do that?
Because I want to get the current port and
stash it so that I have a value.
So event get web server, get port.
I'll say this port set.
Is that okay?
And I shall create a rest
controller at response body.
And I'll go over here,
I'll say get mapping.
Hello, whatever, right.
Map string, string.
Hello.
Hello, okay.
Okay, hello
from port.
There you go, okay.
Pretty straightforward.
Put that in there.
So now let's start this service up.
I want this to run on a random port.
So I'm going to modify
the config file here, right?
I'll just say start on a random port.
Server port equals zero means
start on a random port.
Yeah, it just picks any
port that's not used.
So I'm going to start this up.
Remember its name is service.
So if I go now to service registry,
my Eureka instance over here,
there's an instance of service, right?
And here's the host and
port, the domain, et cetera.
Not bad.
The problem with this,
like let's say stop it, okay?
Now the service is down, eventually it'll
disappear, but it's down, it's flagging.
We can't establish
a heartbeat with it anymore.
The problem with this is that Eureka
doesn't distinguish between multiple nodes
on the same host and port.
Sorry, the same host,
you need to distinguish by port.
So what I would do is I'll say Eureka id.
Instance ID is equal to.
I'll use UUID and
then spring application name.
Okay, that'll give this instance a random
name or somewhat randomized name, right?
So now if I refresh,
you can see it says random-service.
Okay, so now if I run the program again,
I'm going to run the same
service multiple times.
So I'll say you have to tell
Intellij to run multiples, right?
It doesn't do it by default.
So where is that config thing?
Allow multiple instances apply.
So now I start this again there I got two
instead of rewriting the existing one.
So now I go back over here.
Now there's two instances of
the service in the service registry.
So now if I go to one of these host and
ports, that's the actuator input.
By the way, if you have the actuator,
it'll check that and
surface information there.
So it's saying one instance
was Living on Port 49918.
So if I go there, I can get, hello,
I've got the service registry.
You can programmatically interact
with that service registry.
You can ask IT questions,
We can do things for
you with that service registry as well.
For example, if I want to make
a REST request from a client,
I can do client side load balancing.
Before I make the REST call, the client
will look at the service registry and say,
which service instance is available?
I'll take that one.
Please send the request that way.
And you can do round robin,
you can do sticky sessions,
you can do all sorts of different
kinds of load balancing in the client.
This means that, remember, there's no
such thing as one true load balancing.
Just because one service is using load
balancing that's round robin doesn't mean
that's good for everybody else.
And this is the problem with having
centralized gateways that do that kind
of stuff.
It's not one size fits all.